Improved Column Management & Sort by any Facet (#7008)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/logs/explorer/_index.md

      text: 'Detect patterns inside your logs'
---

## Overview

The Logs Explorer is your home base for troubleshooting and exploration:

{{< img src="logs/explorer/log_explorer_walkthrough.gif" alt="Explore view with comments" style="width:80%;" >}}

> Different views offer different type of insights from your log data matching a [search query][1].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Different views offer different types of insights from your log data, matching a [search query][1].
```

### Live Tail

> The Live Tail displays logs as they flow into Datadog. Livetail has no persistance but provides visibility on **all** logs, whether they are indexed or not. Find out more in the [Log Live Tail section][2].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Live Tail displays logs as they flow into Datadog. Live Tail logs do not persist, but the view provides visibility on **all** logs, whether they are indexed or not. Find out more in the [Log Live Tail section][2].
```

{{< img src="logs/explorer/log_explorer_walkthrough_livetail.gif" alt="Log Livetail" style="width:60%;" >}}

### Log Lists

> The Log List displays indexed logs and offer priviledged tools to navigate in **individual results**. Find out more in the [Log List section][3].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Log List displays indexed logs and offers privileged tools to navigate **individual results**. Find out more in the [Log List section][3].
```

{{< img src="logs/explorer/log_explorer_walkthrough_list.png" alt="Log List" style="width:60%;" >}}

### Log Patterns

> The Log Patterns automatically aggregates indexed logs into a **handful of groups** with similar structure. Find out more in the [Log Patterns section][4].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Log Patterns automatically aggregate indexed logs into a **handful of groups** with similar structures. Find out more in the [Log Patterns section][4].
```

{{< img src="logs/explorer/log_explorer_walkthrough_patterns.png" alt="Log Patterns" style="width:60%;" >}}

### Log Analytics

The Log Analytics **graph** log queries and see maximums, averages, percentiles, unique counts, and more. Follow the [log graphing guide][5] to learn more about all the graphing options.

{{< img src="logs/explorer/log_explorer_walkthrough_analytics.png" alt="Log Analytics" style="width:60%;" >}}

## The Log Side Panel

Datadog displays individual logs following this general side-panel layout:

{{< img src="logs/explorer/log_side_panel.png" alt="Log Side Panel"  style="width:60%;">}}

> ### Log Structured Information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Log structured information
```

- The upper part of the panel displays general **context** information.
- The lower part of the panel displays the actual **content** of the log.

> **Context** is all about the Infrastructure and Applicative context in which the log has been generated. Information is gathered from tags, whether automatically attached (host name, container name, log file name, serverless function name, etc. ) or added through custom tags (team in charge, environment, application version, etc.) on the log by the Datadog Agent / Log Forwarder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Context** refers to the infrastructure and application context in which the log has been generated. Information is gathered from tags—whether automatically attached (host name, container name, log file name, serverless function name, etc.)—or added through custom tags (team in charge, environment, application version, etc.) on the log by the Datadog Agent or Log Forwarder.
```

> **Content** is the log per se: the log message, and all structured information extracted and enriched from the logs through [Log Pipelines][6]. For logs generated by common components of a technical stack, parsing and enriching comes out-of-the-box:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Content** refers to the log itself. This includes the log message, as well as all structured information extracted and enriched from the logs through [Log Pipelines][6]. For logs generated by common components of a technical stack, parsing and enriching comes out-of-the-box:
```

> - For file log collection, make sure you properly setup the source field, which triggers that. See our [100+ Log Integrations][7] for reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For file log collection, make sure you properly set up the source field, which triggers file log collection. See Datadog's [100+ Log Integrations][7] for reference.
```

> - For container log collection, take advantage of the [auto-discovery][8].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For container log collection, use [Autodiscovery][8].
```

> Some standard fields — for instance, `error.stack`, `http.method`, or `duration` — have specific prettified displays in the Log Panel for better readability. Make sure you extract corresponding information from your logs and remap your attributes with [standard attribute remappers][9].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some standard fields—for instance, `error.stack`, `http.method`, or `duration`—have specific enhanced displays in the Log Panel for better readability. Make sure you extract corresponding information from your logs and remap your attributes with [standard attribute remappers][9].
```

### A hub to other data sources

Interact with the upper reserved attributes section:

> - with **Host** section, to access the related [host dashboard][10] or [network page][11].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- with the **Host** section, to access the related [host dashboard][10] or [network page][11].
```

> - with **Service** section, to see the [trace in APM][12] (both require a `trace_id` attribute in the log: refer to [trace injection in logs][13]) or the [service page][14].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- with the **Service** section, to see the [trace in APM][12] (both require a `trace_id` attribute in the log: refer to [trace injection in logs][13]) or the [service page][14].
```

The **View in context** button updates the search request in order to show you the log lines dated just before and after a selected log—even if they don't match your filter. This context is different according to the situation, as Datadog uses the `Hostname`, `Service`, `filename`, and `container_id` attributes, along with tags, in order find the appropriate context for your logs.

{{< img src="logs/explorer/side_panel_hub.gif" alt="Side Panel Hub" style="width:60%;">}}

### Configure your troubleshooting context

Interact with the attributes names and values in the lower JSON section to:

- Add or remove a column from the logs table.
- Append the search request with specific values (include or exclude)

{{< img src="logs/explorer/side_panel_context.gif" alt="Side Panel context"  style="width:60%;">}}

> - Build or edit a facet or measure from an attribute - see [Log Facets][15].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Build or edit a facet or measure from an attribute. See [Log Facets][15].
```

{{< img src="logs/explorer/side_panel_facets.gif" alt="Side Panel Facets"  style="width:60%;">}}

### Share a log

Use the **Share** button to share the log opened in side panel to other contexts.

- **Copy to clipboard** or `Ctrl+C` / `Cmd+C` copies the log JSON to your clipboard.
- **Share Event** shares the log (along with the underlying view) with teammates through email, Slack, and more. See all [Datadog notification integrations][16] available.

{{< img src="logs/explorer/upper_log_panel.png" alt="Upper Log Panel"  style="width:50%;">}}

## Troubleshooting Context

### Search Filter

> Build up a context to explore your logs in your log explorer view first by selecting the proper time range then by using the search bar to filter your Logstream and Log Analytics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build up a context to explore your logs in your log explorer view. First, select the proper time range. Then, use the search bar to filter your Logstream and Log Analytics.
```

**Time Range**

The time range feature allows you to display logs in the Logstream or Log Analytics within a given time period.
It appears directly under the search bar as a timeline. The timeline can be displayed or wrapped up with the **Show timeline** check box in the Logstream option panel.

Quickly change the time range by selecting a preset range from the dropdown:

{{< img src="logs/explorer/timerange.png" style="width:50%;" alt="Timerange"  >}}

**Search**

> Use facets, measures, tags, or even [free text search][1] to filter your Logstream and Log Analytics with dedicated context. The search bar and url automatically reflect your selections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use facets, measures, tags, or even [free text search][1] to filter your Logstream and Log Analytics with dedicated context. The search bar and URL automatically reflect your selections.
```
